
Agenda

1. Welcome and Attendance
Todd Hansen - Texas A&M Transportation Institute
Stephanie Gonterman, Isaacs & Associates
Michael Buiting - AIBRA 
Derald Dudley - USDOT - OSAV
Theresa Firestine - USDOT, OSEA
1.6 	Fred Fravel - KFH Group, Inc.
1.7 	Pat Collette - AP055 Committee Chair
1.8	Steve Abernathy - Greyhound
1.9 	Mark Szyperski - On Your Mark Transportation
	
2. A brief background for new attendees
The American Intercity Bus Riders Association (AIBRA) maps intercity bus service for the contiguous United States.  This project provides essential information about the nation’s bus service network including extent, density, frequency, accessibility, and connectivity.  Aging technology, expiring software licenses, and limited resources jeopardize this effort.
The Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) is mandated to develop and maintain a National Transportation Atlas Database that is comprised of geospatial databases that, among other things, depict transportation networks.  The BTS is also mandated to establish a database suitable for analyses carried out by the Federal Government, the States, and metropolitan planning organizations and include information on the volumes and patterns of movement of people, including local, interregional, and international movements, by all modes of transportation, intermodal combinations and information on the location and connectivity of transportation facilities and services.
OSAV understands the value of AIBRA’s work and believes it is in the public interest to preserve and build upon it.  AIBRA and OSAV are investigating how this might be done.

3. Project Discussion
OSAV’s Role 
Managerial assistance
Technical assistance
Provide resources
General Project Discussion
Tie AIBRA work to Intermodal Passenger Connectivity Database
Investigate data - Link City and Bus Service Provider
 
Objectives Discussion
Conserve AIBRA’s mapping effort.
Understand the extent, density, frequency, and accessibility of the nation’s intercity bus services.
Understand how the nation’s intercity bus service connects and enriches the nation’s transportation system.
Document intercity bus service providers, routes, trips, schedules, stops, and calendars by collecting, building, maintaining, and archiving GTFS (General Transit Feed Specification) files that describe intercity bus service.
Identify and establish methods by which GTFS files are collected, built, maintained, and archived.
Demonstrate the benefits of publishing General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS) data for intercity bus service
Encourage and aid the publication GTFS data by nation’s bus service providers.
RTAP, TTI Learning Resources
Scripts to automate and organize data, clean up tables
Open Source Routing Machine
Foster the development of an open-source, internet-based, GTFS management application that will enable researchers, transportation service providers and enthusiast to create, read, update, and archive GTFS data.

Scope Discussion
Convert current Intercity Bus Maps from CAD (Computer Aided Drafting) files to GIS (Geographic Information System) files.
Publish web mapping application of intercity bus services
Author a communications plan which will define outreach strategies on how to best demonstrate the benefits of publishing General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS) data for intercity bus service and encourage the publication GTFS data by nation’s bus service providers.
Establish authoritative data sources for intercity bus data.
Design, build, implement and manage an open-source, internet based, GTFS management application that will enable researchers and transportation service providers to create, read, update, and archive GTFS data.
Design, build, implement and manage open source java scripts to aid in the publication of GTFS data (Routes, Trips, Schedules, Stops, Calendars, etc…)

Time Frame Discussion
Phase One
Convert Current Maps to GIS Files
Update...
Publish AIBRA’s Intercity Bus Service Map
Phase Two
Identify and establish methods for data collection
Outreach (Demonstrate Benefits, Encourage Participation)
Phase Three
Application Development (GTFS Manager, java scripts)

Stakeholders Discussion
AIBRA
USDOT
BTS
OSAV
Working on FMCSA
Working Office of Civil Rights
Other Interested Groups?

4. Open Discussion
Do we include “Chinatown” carriers, caveat estimated routing and service
Rules for inclusion?
Use Interns to capture data
TRB - Quick Response projects J11?
Pat/Fred will call/Follow up

5. Closing

6. THANK YOU!!!!
