
## USDOT / Agenda - National Intercity Bus Atlas Meeting Minutes     
## Meeting on May 26, 2017    

1. Welcome and **Attendance**   
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization      
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT, BTS, OSAV   
2  Steve Abernathy   Greyhound Lines  
3  Glen Carswell   USDOT, FTA  
4  Fred Fravel   KFH Group, Inc.  
5  Theresa Firestine   USDOT, BTS, OSEA  
6  Mark Szyperski   On Your Mark Transportation  
7  Michael Buiting   AIBRA    

2. Update  
Application Review (https://maps.bts.dot.gov/arcgis/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=dcfa01d8a7be4244b2a87848804b64e9)  
Added the Bus Stops from the previous IPCD and a swipe tool  
Analysis Wanted / Needed  
5311f  
Discuss demographic analysis  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Routes  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Populations that are autoless, income, seniors, disabilities  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Id the people that need bus service  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;25 mile radius  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Density of 18-24  
For your review: Rural Population and Intercity Busing  
https://www.rita.dot.gov/bts/sites/rita.dot.gov.bts/files/publications/scheduled_intercity_transportation_and_the_us_rural_population/2010/pdf/entire.pdf  

3. Outreach Update  
Contacting NBTA (John Gobel) GTFS store for Interline providers  
Fred will contact John and invite to monthly meetings  
Derald Dudley contacted the Federal Transit Agency and asked for 5311f data  
NBTA Tech committee meeting next week  
	Make map public for the tech committee meeting  	
Many Of the website are using the same “engine”.  Find the source and access the data?  
Big Holes  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Indian Trails  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Burlington-Trailways  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Arrow-Trailways  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Tornado  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Twin cities - iowa - missouri - ok - tex  
Who are we missing?  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Aaron Antrim (Trillium)? 
	Lot of data for intercity carriers (Mega Bus)?  
	Invite Aaron to NIBA working group.  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;TransCorps?  
Ask Brandon Buchanan (NBTA) to join  

4. Vetted/Trusted Crowdsourcing  
Data Collection from authoritative sources  
Greyhound  
	Out on Google Transit  
Discussing where to park the data for access for this project  
If GH is on the map others will follow….  

5. Closing  
Action items for the next month  
Mike Buiting login for App  
Share Map for NBTA meeting  
Mark S  
