## USDOT / Intercity Bus Working Group Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on July 23, 2019   

1. Welcome   
**Web meeting:**  https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc   
Audio: (515) 606-5187, 286074#

2. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization     
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT, BTS, OSAV  
2  Michael Buiting  AIBRA  
3  Stephanie Gonterman  Isaacs & Associates  
4  Dominic Menegus  USDOT/BTS    
5  Fred Fravel  KFH Group   
6  Stephan A. Parker  TRB   

3. Passenger Travel Support  
A contract has been released for Passenger Travel Support Services.  
Staff to start in late August / early September.  
½ FTE to help with FGDC Transportation Subcommittee  
Develop and Maintain ICB Contact Lists  
Develop and Implement ICB Communications Plans  
Maintain ICB WG Web Content  
Maintain ICB WG Calendar  
Develop and Maintain ICB WG Meeting Materials  
Help the ICB WG Develop Work Plans  
And… **Other Duties as Assigned**  
What am I missing?  
*1 Fulltime GIS Analyst*   
Facilitating the implementation of the GTFS throughout the passenger travel community  
Fostering participation in the Department’s Passenger Travel Initiatives, including the National Transit Map and the Intercity Bus Atlas, through emails, phone calls, presentations, meetings, and webinars.  
Collecting passenger travel source data from data authorities  
Publishing geospatial passenger travel data  
Publishing geospatial passenger travel data services  
Making passenger travel data sets accessible from the OSAV data catalog  
Assessing passenger travel stakeholder needs  
Determining the spatial analysis methodologies which are best employed to meet stakeholder needs  
Work with statisticians to ensure the spatial analysis methodologies are accurate  
Source data collection  
Cartographic production  
Spatial analysis  
Map publishing  
Service Publishing  
Application publishing  

4. NCHRP Project 8-133: Development and Implementation of the ICBA  
NCHRP update  

5. Charter and Yearly Plans  
I’ve asked each FGDC working group to author a charter to define their scope of work.  The charter will be reviewed yearly and include Objectives, Activities, Milestones, and schedule.  
ICBA Objectives  
Increase Participation  
Prioritize by Carrier Classifications  
Legacy Carriers (Interline w/Greyhound)  
Airport Carriers (NWT)  
Express Carriers  
Tweeners  
Rochester City Lines  
Mega/Flix/Etc...  
Look for common ticketing agencies  
Carriers by Airport    
Develop spatial analysis tools  
Near-Miss Analysis  
Analysis of Populations near stops and stations  

6. Open Discussion  
Derald at State Programs FTA  
Add Transit  
Join it with other data sources   
Which routes are funded thru 5311f  
Appalachian Regional Commission Area  
What transit serves the ARC?
Analysis Needs  
Minimum Run Time  
Connections Needed  
Heat Mapping for Population Density  
MPO Conference in October - Baltimore  
Transit and ICB opportunities  
ICB Legislation Analysis?  

7. Next Meeting - Middle of September

8. Thank You.  
