
## USDOT / Intercity Bus Meeting Minutes     
## Meeting on April 27, 2018    

1. Welcome   
**Web meeting:**  https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc   
Audio: (515) 606-5187, 286074#   

2. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)   
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization     
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT, BTS, OSAV     
2  Raquel Wright   FRA  
3  Marcy Jaffe   Transnnovation Inc  
4  Amos Lock   Transcor Data Services  
5  Stephanie Gonterman  Greyhound  
6  JD Kronicz  Penn State  
7  Dominic Menegus   USDOT/OSTR/BTS  
8  Thomas Craig  Trillium  
9  Rich Grady  AppGeo  
10 Yunjiang Xu  Greyhound  
11 Frederic D. Fravel   KFH Group, Inc.  

3. Discussion of proposed MOU  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aPXLi8k8eQv7CgYDtRVpXtuqXrN5GyhKs51W3P78LoY/edit?usp=sharing  
Issues addressed in version 5.1.3  
MOU is more explicit about Scheduled Service - Created definition of scheduled service for context of MOU  
What about real time data - Real time data for purposes of this MOU  
Made purpose of the snapshot clearer  
Created a process through which operators can request data refreshes  
BTS will coordinate data pulls with industry schedule updates  
Explained that it is no-cost  

4. MOU Implementation plan  
Intercity Bus Atlas Website  
Introduction and overview of the ICB initiative  
Registration form including the MOU and licence will be available  
Map and Application Gallery  
A definition of terms will be included.  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Operators  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Scheduled Service  
&nbsp; &nbsp;GTFS  
&nbsp; &nbsp;More…  
User Guide  
Frequently asked questions  
Contact information  
Will reach out to GTFS creators/managers starting in May (TDS, Trillium, etc…).  The idea is to have the ICB registration offered by GTFS service providers.  
5. New ICBA Business / Open Discussion  
FF - Analysis RFP - Oregon DOT use tool for studies - Tied to demographic data  
Contact Oregon DOT to see the tool  
Trillium contractor for the Oregon data and tool  
Matthew Barnes - Contact at Oregon DOT  
SG  

6. GTFS Webinar 24 May 2018 @ 1400  
Using GTFS to tell your story…  
The Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) and the National Rural Transit Assistance Program (RTAP) will discuss the General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS) and how it’s being leveraged to collect, compile, visualize, and publish transit, intercity bus, and intermodal passenger travel datasets in a webinar on May 24th, 2018 at 2:00 PM.  
The workshop will clarify GTFS, its significance, and provide hands-on instruction on how to build GTFS compliant data using a free Microsoft Excel application.   The seminar will also provide an overview of GTFS based initiatives at the USDOT and explain how the transit, intercity bus, and intermodal passenger travel communities can contribute to these important projects.  
Anyone with a desire to learn about emerging trends in visualizing fixed route transportation services will benefit from this seminar.  

7. FGDC Transportation Subcommittee Mission Reminder  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Enhancing the Transportation Theme of the National Spatial Data Infrastructure  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Easy Access, Better Data, Greater Understanding  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Facilitating Partnerships and Coordinating Efforts  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Problem Identification, Evaluation, Resolution  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Data Development  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Standards Development  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Identifying and Promoting Best Practices  
	
8. FGDC Transportation Subcommittee Calendar  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15kMwjbUJzoAxdZ_Ha7XmPXYqjLNVwfAAgzbsAcPfU9E/edit?usp=sharing  

9. Resources  
Past Meetings  
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B5DYuG8k2YIKNTBRUFg0MkZmZkE?usp=sharing  
Tools and resources...  
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B5DYuG8k2YIKM2NIYmlTVTA4dFk?usp=sharing  

10. Thank You.  
