
## USDOT / Intercity Bus Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on November 26, 2019   

1. Welcome   
**Web meeting:**  https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc
Audio: (515) 606-5187, 286074#

2. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization     
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT, BTS, OSAV   
2  Stephanie Gonterman   I & A   
3  Thomas Craig   Trillium (contractor to BTS)    
4  Brandon Buchanan   NBTA     
5  Marcy Jaffe   Transnnovation / NRTAP    
6  Fred Fravel   KFH Group, Inc.     
 
3. NCHRP 08-133 Update   
Project Panel Invitation have gone out.     
Please complete and return if you wish to be on the panel.   
First panel Meeting   
January 6, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.  
January 7, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.  
2020 at the Keck Center of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, Room Keck 209, 500 Fifth Street NW, Washington, DC.  
Meeting Details  
RSVP by December 18th  
Paid travel for those beyond 50 miles from meeting site  
Need Help?  
**Help with… &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;  Example  &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Contact**  
1. Meeting &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;  Agendas, deliverables, reports, scheduling, project info, etc.  
&nbsp; &nbsp; Parker, Stephan A. SAParker@nas.edu  
&nbsp; &nbsp; Campbell, Stephanie L. SLCampbell@nas.edu  
2. Travel   &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; RSVP, Air/train travel, hotel reservations, constructive cost estimates, etc.  
&nbsp; &nbsp; Travel Specialist  dmagnolia@nas.edu  
3.  Expense Report &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Concur Solutions, completing/submitting expenses, etc.  
&nbsp; &nbsp; CRP Finance Office CRPTravelAcct@nas.edu  
Speak with Stephan to add agenda items (saparker@nas.edu)  
FTA Liaison for NCHRP (John Giorgus) - Help with 5311f funding issues  
Study: Evidence that GTFS makes Transit / Intercity bus travel better  
Measures of better  
Possible Conflicts  
Trillium  
Terry Cordel (TransC)  
 
4. Objective 1: Increase Participation  
DOT and Trillium still working on outreach plan  
Prioritizing Busing companies for the largest impact within the context of a larger passenger travel contract.  
Outreach to begin in January  
Hope to coordinate with NRTAP  
Coordinate with NBTA  
Presentation December 12th Quarterly 12/9 @1500 ET  
10 Minutes  
FTA  
5311F reported to the NTD, how much, for what,   
Not Routes  
Designate where that money is being spent and how. Attach to ICB Atlas  
FF - State Studies and ICB Data  
Schedule meeting with FF and State  
 
5. Objective 2: Develop Analysis Tools (Prioritize the following)   
Work with FF to define analysis tools
Build Stop Catchments  
Analysis of Populations near stops/stations  
Near-Miss Analysis / Needed Connections  
Minimum Run Time  
Heat Mapping for Population Density / Frequency of service  
 
6. Write Charter for 2020 with Implementation Plan  

7. ICB Calendar for 2020 (February, March, May, July, September, November, January)  
 
8. Open Discussion?  
Panel Discussions  
What analysis does this group  
 
9. Action Items  
Derald talk to Stephan about adding Thomas to panel (Conflict interest)  
Derald talk to Stephan about adding Brandon to panel  
Derald talk to Stephan about adding NRTAP representative to panel  
Arrange meeting with Stephan (Thomas - Stephan - Derald)?  
Schedule meeting with FF and State(s) for data access - Derald nudge FF  
Coordinate with NBTA  
Presentation December 12th Quarterly 12/9 @1500 ET (10 Minutes)  
What analysis does this group  
 
10. Next Meeting  
Email update about NBTA presentation to this group.  
NCHRP as mentioned above  
Update about  
February Meeting - Update  

11. Thank You!   

