
## USDOT / National Intercity Busing Atlas Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on September 28, 2018   

1. Welcome   
**Web meeting:**  https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc   
Audio: (515) 739-1285, 286074#      

2. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)   
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization     
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT, BTS, OSAV  
2  Marcy Jaffe  National RTAP/Transnno   
3  Thomas Craig  Trillium   
4  Adam Krom   Amtrak   

3. MOU Update  
The MOU  
With input from this working group and through friendly, and enthusiastic, negotiations with Greyhound Lines, Inc. we have reached agreement on the Memorandum of Understanding.  
The MOU below is the agreement used grant BTS the licenses it needs to collect, compile, publish, and archive intercity bus service data.  
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BOB2DxHuSLLzJwYZcWjA9IhVmsuwrOM3/view?usp=sharing  

4. Intercity Bus Atlas Website Tour (Soft Launch, please review but not advertise)  
Home page  
About the Intercity Bus Atlas  
Participation  
Need to add info about the ICBA working group  
Registration  
Being finished today.  
This is a soft launch too. I will announce the ICBA registration is open at RIBTC on 10/2  
Data, Maps, & Apps  

5. What is the web site missing?   
Definition of terms  
User’s Guide for the atlas  
Will add a FAQ once we start getting questions  
Contact information  
ICBA/NTM data gaps  
Aaron/Trillium Mobility Data Rocky Mountain Institute  
Human services coordination planning - how to forward/advance those plans  

6. New ICBA Business / Open Discussion  
Develop comprehensive ICB list for participation map - AIBRA, ABA/NBTA list  
Accommodate different types of stations/stops  
	
7. GTFS Webinar in November/December?
Using GTFS to tell your story…
The Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) and the National Rural Transit Assistance Program (RTAP) will discuss the General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS) and how it’s being leveraged to collect, compile, visualize, and publish transit, intercity bus, and intermodal passenger travel datasets in a webinar on July 12th, 2018 at 2:00 PM.
The workshop will clarify GTFS, its significance, and provide hands-on instruction on how to build GTFS compliant data using a free Microsoft Excel application.   The seminar will also provide an overview of GTFS based initiatives at the USDOT and explain how the transit, intercity bus, and intermodal passenger travel communities can contribute to these important projects.
Anyone with a desire to learn about emerging trends in visualizing fixed route transportation services will benefit from this seminar.
GDC Transportation Subcommittee Mission Reminder  
Enhancing the transportation theme of the national spatial data infrastructure  
Facilitate partnerships and coordinate efforts among the geospatial transportation community  
Ease data access  
Develop better data  
Develop data standards  
Promote best practices  
Identify, evaluate, and resolve geospatial transportation data problems  
Cultivate a greater understanding of American transportation.  
 	
8. FGDC Transportation Subcommittee Calendar  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15kMwjbUJzoAxdZ_Ha7XmPXYqjLNVwfAAgzbsAcPfU9E/edit?usp=sharing  

9. Resources  
Past Meetings  
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B5DYuG8k2YIKNTBRUFg0MkZmZkE?usp=sharing  
Tools and resources...  
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B5DYuG8k2YIKM2NIYmlTVTA4dFk?usp=sharing  

10. Thank You.  
