
## USDOT / Intercity Bus Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on November 30, 2018   

1. Welcome   
**Web meeting:**  https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc   
Audio: (515) 739-1285, 286074#   

2. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)   
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization     
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT, BTS, OSAV  
2  Stephanie Gonterman  
3  Thomas Craig  Trillium  
4  Brandon Buchanan  ABA  
5  Adam Krom  Amtrak  

3. Registration is open  
https://www.bts.gov/intercity-busing/registration  

4. Tour the ICBA Webpages (Let me know what I’m missing.)  
Home page  
About the Intercity Bus Atlas  
Participation  
Need to add info about the ICBA working group  
Registration  
Being finished today.  
This is a soft launch too. I will announce the ICBA registration is open at RIBTC on 10/2  
Data, Maps, & Apps  

5. RIBTC Topics  
Have our first 2 registrations.  Yay!  
Greyhound and   
OurBus / Amtrak  
Ticketing agency providers / Who is the Auth Source agent or operators  
Weeding out duplicative services  
Using GTFS to alert providers about service changes or droped routes  
TC: Info is in the GTFS Spec question is the architecture to support the delivery of the message  
Interesting - A group/communal alert be done using indi  
Identifying population, intercity bus, and  transit analysis topics  
Identifying connectivity, intercity bus, and  transit analysis topics  
How close are ICB stops to Transit stops.  Where are the near misses?  
Talk to Fred about Near misses  
Stephanie Gonterman: Something about insurance coverage across state lines preventing service?  
Include in conversation  
Robin   
Brandon and ABA/NBTA   
CTAA  
FMCSA: Contact to come from SG  

6. New ICBA Business / Open Discussion  
Better registration experience for National Transit Map  
Develop comprehensive ICB list for participation map - AIBRA, ABA/NBTA list, FMCSA  
NBTA to provide  
NBTA March 26 in Dallas  
	
7. GTFS Webinar in November/December?  
Working with Marcy Jaffe to identify a workshop date.  
Actually build a GTFS for a small agency.  

8. FGDC Transportation Subcommittee Mission Reminder  
Enhancing the transportation theme of the national spatial data infrastructure  
Facilitate partnerships and coordinate efforts among the geospatial transportation community  
Ease data access   
Develop better data  
Develop data standards  
Promote best practices  
Identify, evaluate, and resolve geospatial transportation data problems  
Cultivate a greater understanding of American transportation.  
 	 
9. FGDC Transportation Subcommittee Calendar  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15kMwjbUJzoAxdZ_Ha7XmPXYqjLNVwfAAgzbsAcPfU9E/edit?usp=sharing  

10. Resources  
Past Meetings  
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B5DYuG8k2YIKNTBRUFg0MkZmZkE?usp=sharing  
Tools and resources...  
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B5DYuG8k2YIKM2NIYmlTVTA4dFk?usp=sharing  

11. Thank You.  
