## USDOT / US Road Specification Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on June 27, 2019  

1. Connecting:  
New Room: https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc  
The call-in number: (515) 606-5187, 286074#  

2. Welcome!  
Please sign in below.  
**Attendance** (Please sign in below)    
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization      
1	 Derald Dudley 	USDOT/BTS	    
2  Todd Peterson   USDOT/FHWA  
3  Elaine Guidero   USGS/NGTOC  
4  Shantae Guy  USDA/FS  
5  Neil Trenk   US Census Bureau  
6  Tom Roff   FHWA  
7  Elizabeth McCartney   USGS/NGTOC  
8  Paul Dubois   USACE/AGC  
9  Samantha Lubkin   FHWA   
10  Karen Rank   US FWS  
11  Chuck Matthys   USGS/NGTOC  
12  Mark Sarmiento   FHWA  
13  Dominic Menegus   USDOT/BTS  
14  Gita Urban-Mathieux   USGS/NGP  
15  Mahsa Ettefagh   Booz Allen Hamilton  
16  Josefa Baker   USGS/NGP  
17  Qassim Abdullah   Woolpert   
18  Jennifer Walter   USGS/NGTOC   

3. Updates  
Reviewed Base Specification Features and Attributes (Minimum Content) on 19 March 2019  
https://communities.geoplatform.gov/ngda-transportation/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/20190319_usrs_workshop_agenda.pdf  
Road and Ferry Class - Features  
Feature  
Road and Ferry Feature  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Road Element  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Junction  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Enclosed Traffic Areas  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Ferry Crossings  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Pathway  
Road and Ferry Class Diagram  
See diagram at: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pV_agocoPBKVV8rtzWKJQp6KLuU6538kUllXeW9Q60g/edit    
Attributes above the line in each class are required  
All subclasses inherit the attributes from their respective superclasses  
E.g. A Ferry Connection object will inherit the attributes Unique ID, source, vintage, and positional accuracy from the Feature Class and the Road and Ferry Class  
Suggest we include feature level metadata as optional in version 1.0 of the specification.  It accommodates the integration of road and ferry data from multiple sources and fosters confidence in the dataset.  
Census suggested we include spatial resolution.  Need a definition and description for that.  
Are there any objections on including feature level metadata in version 1.0 of the specification?  
Approved to Include Feature Level Metadata  
Illustration  
See illustration at: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pV_agocoPBKVV8rtzWKJQp6KLuU6538kUllXeW9Q60g/edit      

4. Review and comment on Draft Specification version  1.0  
Due 31 July 2019  
Include Ferry Route optional OfficialName & AlternateName  
Make Ferry RouteNumber Optional  
Please comment on outline and general content  
Please comment on section 6.2 Roads and Ferries Features  
Please comment on section 6.3 Attribute Catalog  

5. Version 1.1 Candidate Feature and Attributes  
National Unique Persistent ID  
Road Event Feature  
Temporary occurrences which alter traffic patterns (Work Zones, Closures, Special Events)  
Address Range Attributes  
Display Class Attributes  
Functional? Road Classification Attributes  
New working group - Elaine Guidero and Tom Roff and others  
Surface Type Attributes  
Pavement Condition  
Positional Accuracy, Precision, and Resolution Discussion  
New Working Group - Qassim  
Extending the Spec with User Defined Attributes   

6. Working Group Charters  
In an effort to focus this groups efforts and to aid FGDC reporting requirements I will be drafting a Charter  
I ask the other working group chairs to draft charters for their groups.  
I have a template I can share.  

7. USRS Agenda   
Consider new Features and Attributes   
Review the geometric model (How are the data stored?)  
Diversify and increase membership  
Community Outreach to garner community Buy-In  
Consider who we invite - Private Influence on a vendor and application neutral spec.  
Private Sector  
Federal/Tribal Governments  
State Governments  
AASHTO and GIS-T  
Local Governments  
Seminars / Conferences  
GIS-T April 2019 - Derald  
NGAC December 6th webinar - John Mahoney, FGDC  (jmahoney@usgs.gov)  
Address Subcommittee (Steve Lewis and Lynda Liptrap)  
NSGIC - Meet Twice a Year - Conference 2019 (Lynda Liptrap)  
Integration with other standards  
OpenStreetMap  
SharedStreets  

8. Status Check  
What are we missing?  
Prioritizing Attributes  

9. Other USRS Business  
Next Meeting September 2 @ 11 AM ET  

10. FGDC and TSC Business  
**Work Zone Data Working Group**  
If we have enough responses from invited individuals, agencies, and companies we will establish a Work Zone Data Working Group  
Work Zone Data will fall under a Road Event Feature Class with in the United States Road Specification  
Road Events are temporary phenomenon that disrupt the expected flow of traffic  
Examples: Work Zones, Closures, Crashes  
Can you think of more use cases?  
Weather and natural disasters  
Charter linked below and included in the invitation - Please Review and Comment  
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bEjkOwGjox6l35cpxSsi0rxSHKBBYDr3/view?usp=sharing  
Invitations to the Kick-Off meeting will be sent to the Transportation Subcommittee  
WZD Exchange Specification  
https://github.com/usdot-jpo-ode/jpo-wzdx  
**Trails and Pathways Working Group**  
Charter is linked below - Please review and comment on the charter  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sFsp9Ptr3PmBNoyYivP-1qdljChc2WondwXte5pB9gc/edit?usp=sharing  
AGOL Viewer for trails data built in response to a request from Deputy Secretary at the Dept of the Interior.  
https://usgs.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=d3c32c758316402dbd8292b7ffea720e  
Anyone attending the ESRI UC?  
Please update the TSC Calendar  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10fzHTOjail7GkPbj7I4ZUOfjLaoqH6B8h4blac3mKdw/edit?usp=sharing  

11. Action Items  
Change TSC Meeting its On Labor Day!  
Derald - Subcommittee Invitations to WZD WG Kick Off Meeting  
WG  - Update Calendar  
Derald - Draft USRS Charter  
WG - Review USRS Charter  
WG - Review Draft Spec by 31 July 2019  
Stand Up Road Classification Working Group - Elaine Charter Template  
Stand Up Positional Accuracy Working Group - Qassim Charter Template  
Derald - Find and call someone at ANSI that can help with licensing.  
Derald - Coordinate ISO 14825 with Address Database Standard. Steve Lewis, Linda Liptrap and Jon Duran (Version 1.1 or 1.2)  

12. Open Discussion   

13.  Thank you!
