

## Geospatial Transportation Subcommittee Meeting
### August 2, 2018    

1. Welcome   

2. **Transportation Subcommittee Website:** Webinar Information   
Join us by webinar: https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc  
Audio: (515) 739-1285, 286074#   
PowerPoint Presentation from Census: https://communities.geoplatform.gov/ngda-transportation/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/tsc_pres_census_20180802.pptx   
PowerPoint Presentation - How BTS Uses ACS Data: https://communities.geoplatform.gov/ngda-transportation/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/tsc_pres_bts_20180802.pptx

3. **Attendance:**      
1 ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization     
2 Derald Dudley   USDOT/BTS   
3 Charlynn Burd   Census   
4 Brian McKenzie   Census   
5 David Cackowski   Census   
6 Steve Lewis   USDOT/OST   
7 Theresa Firestine   USDOT/BTS   
8 Dierdre Bevington-Attardi   Census   
9 Neil Trenk   Census   
10 Clara Reschovsky   USDOT/BTS   
11 Ron Vaughn   USDOT/FHWA   
12 Tom Roff   USDOT/FHWA   
13 Adam Krom   Amtrak   
14 Samantha Lubkin   USDOT/FHWA   
15 Tammy Ratliff  USDOT/EFLHD   
16 Chuck Matthys  USGS   
17 Pierre Bahizi   USDA/AMS   
18 Kanin Reese  Census   
19 Gita Urban-Mathieux  USGS/NGP   
20 Sheila steffenson   1spatial   
21 Chad Baker Caltrans  

4. Presentations   
4.1. Census - American Community Survey (ACS) and Geography   
Charlynn Burd and Brian McKenzie   
4.2. BTS and the ACS   
Clara Reschovsky and Theresa Firestine   
4.3. American Fact Finder phasing to cedsci   
KaNin Reese   
Cedsci Feedback - cedsci.feedback@census.gov   
4.4. Power Points are here:   
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1oYtjTJycqxp0mej_loIKpNNoFTtwwsS   

5. Updates      
5.1. Charter   
We’ve drafted an update to the the original charter. We’ve updated the language and clarified
leadership roles and their responsibilities.   
Here is a link to the proposed Charter update: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DOvV9blcy7b7QPWMVx98JC1mpoIDeRkfob3iHMlYu3o/edit?usp=sharing   
Sent draft charter to Lucia Foulkes and Ken Shaffer at FGDC on 6/14.  
I asked about its status this morning.   
I’ll follow up again when I return from my vacation.   
5.2. US Road Network Specification (USRNS) Working Group   
USRNS WG is developing a road network specification.   
BTS has purchased the Intelligent Transport Systems - Geographic Data Files Standard (ISO
14825:2011, https://www.iso.org/standard/54610.html)   
I'm comparing it to the attributes submitted by the USRNS Working Group to identify
commonalities.   
(https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xw335aPuK8oGs8er7AVs1is4ZmziCa4w1WqKWgUbrGA/edit#gid=0)   
Based on the commonalities I’ll recommend attributes for inclusion in the USRN Specification
and start a discussion about modeling techniques.  
5.3. GIS-T 2019 Federal Track Update   
We’re organizing a group of Federal GIS topics for the 2019 GIS-T conference in Kissimee, FL.   
We need 9 or 12 Topics to offer the planning committee. The sooner we
submit the better our chances. April 23-26 2019   
5.3.1. BTS - An update in the U.S. Road Networks Specification   
5.3.2. BTS - General Transit Feed Specification Efforts at the USDOT   
5.3.3. OST - Presentation Steve Lewis   
5.3.4. Fed Highway: Safety Tom Roff   
5.3.5. Fed Highway: TPM By Ronald Vaughn   
5.3.6. Mark Sarmiento has been Voluntold by Ron Vaughn   
5.3.7. GIS-USGS   
5.3.8. GIS-FRA   
5.3.9. Census - Submit Topics First of September?   
5.3.10. Federal Land Roads WG Update   
5.3.11. OST - Data integration for roadway safety   
OST Policy created an integrated dataset to develop a risk tool, NHTSA is
working with FHWA to align FARS to HPMS to perform network risk analysis (via
ESRI), and FHWA more generally is encourages Data Driven Safety Analysis
through integrated crash, roadway attribute, and traffic volume data.   
5.3.12. Maritime Admin?   
5.3.13. Fed Motor Carrier?   
5.3.14. Fed Transit?   
5.3.15. Fed Lands Working Group?   
5.4. Federal Land Roads (FLR) Working Group Update - David Cackowski   
Gita - Meeting Next week on 8th of August at 1300
Email burbanma@usgs.gov (Gita) to be added to the list   
Brian Diethorn to Moderate   
Lisa Johnson FLWG - Presentation on Protected Areas Database US   
5.5. Intercity Busing (ICB) Working Group Update - Derald Dudley   
The ICB WG is working to establish a Intercity Busing layer which will be integrated with
the Intermodal Passenger Connectivity Database and the National Transit Map.
Drafted and MOU to facilitate partnerships between USDOT and Intercity Bus Service
Providers. The MOU grants BTS a license to pull and publish their General Transit Feed
Specification (GTFS) data at least once a year but not more than 4 times a year.   
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aPXLi8k8eQv7CgYDtRVpXtuqXrN5GyhKs51W3P78LoY/edit?usp=sharing   
We’ve drafted a registration form and are working on completing the ICB website.   
https://cms.bts.dot.gov/content/national-intercity-bus-atlas-partnerships (May not be
viewable from outside DOT)   
The site will go live in October when I present it at the Rural and Intercity Bus
Transportation conference in Boulder, CO.   
5.6. Transit Working Group   
No movement here. First step is to write the Mission Statement and define the groups
scope.   
5.7. The Best Practices Working Group is still on my wish list. Would anyone like to chair it?   
&nbsp; &nbsp; ● Best practices in calculating populations with in transportation catchments   
&nbsp; &nbsp; ● Population in Catchments around transportation features - (USDOT)   
&nbsp; &nbsp; ● Best practices of calculating populations affected by regional phenomena (Census)   
&nbsp; &nbsp; ● Any other best practices activities? What other analysis do others perform with
transportation data? (eg Transportation and Population, Land Use, Economy?)   
5.8. Potential TSC Talks.   
5.8.1. Shared Streets Introduction, James Graham - D.C. DOT?   
Derald To reach out…   
5.8.2. Intro to USDOT GTFS activities (National Transit Map, Intercity Busing Atlas,
Intermodal Passenger Connectivity)   
5.8.3. Other Fed agencies   
5.8.4. OGC FGDC Disaster Workshop presentation by Brian Solis - Trans and transit
planning manager, City of VA Beach - Storm Sense - Mapping real time flooding  

6. New TSC Business   

7. Upcoming Events, Milestones and Announcements   
USRNS Meeting tomorrow @ 1400 Same URL and phone line.   
Federal Lands WG - 8th of August at 1300   
&nbsp; &nbsp; ● Geohazards Impacting Transportation in Appalachia, 18th Annual Technical Forum,
Baltimore, MD, August 7-9, 2018. Hosted by Maryland DOT.   
9/20-21 National Imagery Summit @ USGS in Reston   
October 1 - 5 NISGIC, Address Subcommittee   
TSC Calendar:   
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15kMwjbUJzoAxdZ_Ha7XmPXYqjLNVwfAAgzbsAcPfU9E/edit?usp=sharing   

8. Mission Reminder   
8.1. Enhancing the transportation theme of the national spatial data infrastructure   
8.2. Facilitate partnerships, coordinate efforts, and heighten awareness among the
geospatial transportation community   
8.3. Develop data standards   
8.4. Ease data access   
8.5. Develop better data   
8.6. Promote best practices   
8.7. Identify, evaluate, and resolve geospatial transportation data problems   
8.8. Cultivate a greater understanding of the American transportation system.   

9. Thank You! And don’t forget to tip your server.   
