
## USDOT / USRNS - WG (US Road Network Specification) Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on May 30, 2018  

1. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)    
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization        
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT/BTS	  
2  Chuck Matthys   USGS  
3  Gita Urban-Mathieux   USGS   
4  Dave Cackowski   Census  
5  Valerie Beaudin   Census  
6  Dierdre Bevington-Attardi  Census  
7  Sheila steffenson   1Spatial  
8  Dominic Menegus   USDOT/BTS  
9  Ronald Vaughn   USDOT/FHWA  
10  Gary Baker USDOT/Volpe  
11  Paul Sittig   New Mexico DOT  
12  Hussein S Elkhansa  WV DOT  
13  Mark Sarmiento  USDOT/FHWA    
14  Howard Caro-Lopez   USDOT/DOCR   

2. Connecting  
The URL: https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc  
The call-in number: (515) 739-1285, 286074  

3. Welcome and thanks....  

4. Charter Vote  
	https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KT5F-UM7zLk3VPGqeaQgZKcI9tHnB5Pr/view?usp=sharing  
Dissenting Votes and Concerns  

5. Charter what’s Next  
Forward to FGDC Leadership - Contact?  
Lucia Foulkes, lfoulkes@usgs.gov and  and Ken Shaffer, kmshaffer@usgs.gov  

6. USRNS Definitions Review - Comments  
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qwgvPzfFTJmbr5BXwuHSrZaC7lLmvotN/view?usp=sharing  
From the “What” section  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;•	Explain “sets the criteria to determine compliance.”  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;•	Will everyone translate “phenomena” the same way ? There should be a reference the kind of road data that will be collected, i.e., “All Roads” data.   
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;•	The term “compliance” needs to be spelled out, since there is also a reference to “USRNS compliant organizations” later in this specification. Can you add something here about what “compliance” means (or later in the document, what a “compliant organization” means)?  
From the “Benefits” Section  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;•	Define what a “compliant organization” is—or what are the requirements and responsibilities USRNS compliant organizations?)   
From the “Audience” Section    
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;•	Change section title to “Audience / Stakeholders”  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;•	Are you only referencing contributors? Organizations, agencies, companies that own, maintain, use roads data themselves? Or who are covered by the OMB Circular A-16?  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;•	What about Individuals/public users not associated with organization, agencies, companies? Will the USRN be in the public domain?  
From the “Data Sources” Section  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;•	This section is confusing. It should be renamed “Purpose.”   
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;•	“Instrument” does equate to a data source. A specification is a definition (from first sentence of the document).   
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;•	An alternate suggestion for the data sources is below  
Data Sources: “Compliant organizations” are defined as the primary data providers that produce the resources that are integrated into the USRN database. These include the national, state, local data providers that will contribute base information, models, analysis, tools, etc. to build the USRN.  
General Comments  
I think you have a nice start. From a technical perspective, you are on the right path.  
I added some use cases from FHWA that I think the network should support.  
Rather than just adopting the Canada NRN, I think we should be very careful that it covers all the uses on the list.  
I also think if we do use the Canada Model, it would be better to plagiarize what we need from it. There is a whole Intersection discussion going on in the states that we should make sure that the NRN could support. I introduced you to Ron Brush last week who has an approach that addresses all my needs. I have not dug as deep as I would like into what the NRN does.  

7. USRNS Next Steps  
Content Review  
Make updates to the Definition, Purpose and benefits document based on received comments  
Compare FHWA ISO model to Canadian Model and combine where appropriate  
Compare the Canadian NRN class attributes to the attributes submitted by this working group  
Identify matches  
Identify gaps  
Review the matching attributes and the Conceptual Data Model to corroborate their placement in the schema.  
Review the missing attributes and determine a plan of action  
Review the Canadian Product Specification to determine if it fits our needs.  

8. USRNS Schedule  
May 30 comments and review of Network Definition  
May 30 Charter Vote  
Complete and present the attribute at the 6/27 meeting  
Complete and present the Specification Review at the 6/27 meeting  
Vote on attributes and specification in July 13th meeting.  

9. On Deck for the TSC  
2018 TSC Calendar  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15kMwjbUJzoAxdZ_Ha7XmPXYqjLNVwfAAgzbsAcPfU9E/edit?usp=sharing  

10. Old Business  
N/A  

11. New Business  
N/A  

12. Announcements  
Reminder - Federal Land Roads Working Group mtg June 6 at 1 pm ET - contact Gita Urban-Mathieux, burbanma@usgs.gov  
	
13. Thank you!  

14. Resources  
Definition of Terms (All are draft definitions and open to comment)  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v5vBmus_wsk7X9khWVMinKquQ_0G9PDb9vsJkoA-x1Q/edit?usp=sharing  
Requirements  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13IibMHU6YzA7K2FpP0GwxUA7fGFu1Fju_5tM6C7PWC8/edit?usp=sharing  
Sources  
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dFgkbNAwVsN2mKWEhA1WFF3nGKHYVIt1/view?usp=sharing  
Canadian NRN Documentation  
https://drive.google.com/file/d/16FXkJVr2usuVw9TdWSg4FqxrKWi71qpJ/view?usp=sharing  
Timeline  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nWVAaLvc5uATvNrXFj9VpPPjwlfdQlsw3Hbz2HsZmo8/edit?usp=sharing  
