## USDOT / US Road Specification Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on September 12, 2018  

1. Connecting:  
New Room: https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/itip/  
The call-in number: (515) 739-1285, 286074  

2. Welcome!  
Please sign in below.  
**Attendance** (Please sign in below)    
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization        
1	 Derald Dudley 	USDOT/BTS	    
2  Tom Roff   USDOT/FHWA  
3  Jon Gustafson   WSP USA, Inc.  
4  Chuck Matthys   USGS/NGTOC  
5  Gita Urban-Mathieux   USGS/NGP  
6  Dierdre Bevington-Attardi   Census Bureau  
7  Adam Krom   Amtrak  
8  Dave Cackowski   Census Bureau  
9  Lucie Vogel   Indian Health Service  
10  Elizabeth McCartney   USGS  
11  Marcy Jaffe   Support to National RTAP   

3. Version 2 of the USRNS Definition, Purpose, and Benefits  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XI0dJFY_aIZXaFXxSd7QF2PGBE_q73neyaj1JrpQKpQ/edit?usp=sharing  
Added a Specification Base and Specification Extensions section to address the use cases the specification will satisfy  
Included a definition of Authoritative Sources  
Next?  
Review definitions of Specification Base and Specification Extensions  
Start Defining the use cases for complimentary missions  

4. Sharing ISO 14825:2011 -Intelligent transport systems -- Geographic Data Files (GDF) -- GDF5.0  
https://www.iso.org/files/live/sites/isoorg/files/store/en/PUB100206.pdf  
I have contacted the  American National Standards Institute (ANSI) about getting a license that will allow us to share ISO 14825:2011 among the working group. My inquiry was forwarded to their sales department.  They’re reviewing my request for a “site license”.  

5. Feature and Attribute Recommendations  
We are identifying the features and attributes necessary for detailing the base specification.  The base specification defines the essential features and attributes needed to meet critical road management missions. Critical road management missions are Identifying, Locating, and Classifying Roads;  
Feature Recommendations from ISO14825:2011  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/19xCrX6pAtkVZOY0l0YR5ruP7UYqoWxfj_PwCuQrseDQ/edit?usp=sharing  
Attribute Recommendations from ISO14825:2011  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y_aG9HOnsjnQ0qYXGbZVg_1CSEBabIFnCmPO_Mnfdro/edit?usp=sharing  

6. USRNS Agenda  
Need long term project plan.  I realize the importance of this but I have not gotten to it yet, sorry  
Short Term  
Continue to Review Features and Attributes  
There are some attributes I need to add to the Attribute Definitions Spreadsheet  
Divide and conquer?  
Weekly reviews of small chunks of the Features and Attributes?  
Assign portions of the Features/Attributes to organizations/individuals for recommendations.  Then meet and reach consensus?  
WG Review and notes first  
Meet Oct 10 at 2 pm ET to review individual notes  
Hire Facilitator - Census has facilitator?   
Agenda for group - Goal for Day - Concentrated Effort  
Then Face to Face meeting after?  
Nov 15th for the face to face  
Census CAT Lab?  
USGS -- Reston?  
USDOT -- DC?  
Start Community Outreach and garner Community Buy-In  
Private Sector  
Wait - Clarify our message - Make sure they do not perceive it as competition, use cases  
Federal/Tribal Governments  
State Governments  
GIS-T  
Local Governments  
Seminars / Conferences  
GIS-T April 2019  
NGAC December 6th webinar - John Mahoney, FGDC  (jmahoney@usgs.gov)  
Address Subcommittee (Steve Lewis and Lynda Liptrap)  
NSGIC - Meet Twice a Year - Conference 2019 (Lynda Liptrap)  
Openstreetmap Group - Talk to TR  

7. Status Check  
Are there any suggestions about our current methodology?  

8. Other USRNS Business  
Next Meeting?  
Oct 10  
Nov 15  

9. FGDC and TSC Business  
2018 TSC Calendar  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15kMwjbUJzoAxdZ_Ha7XmPXYqjLNVwfAAgzbsAcPfU9E/edit?usp=sharing  

10. Action Items  
Assign Group tasks  
Review and comment on Specification Base and Specification Extensions in the Definition, Purpose, and Benefits of the United States Road Network Specification document  
Review and Recommend Features  
Review and Recommend Attributes  
Write email to assign homework and inform group about about the 2 meeting dates 10/10 and 11/15  

11. Thank you!  
