## USDOT / US Road Specification Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on June 27, 2018  

1. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)    
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization        
1	 Derald Dudley 	USDOT/BTS	      
2  Dierdre Bevington-Attardi   US Census Bureau  
3  Neil Trenk   US Census Bureau  
4  Ronald Vaughn   USDOT/FHWA  
5  Dominic Menegus   USDOT/OSTR/BTS  
6  Karen Rank  USFWS  
7  Tom Roff   USDOT/FHWA  
8  Valerie L. Beaudin  Census  
9  Mark Sarmiento   USDOT/FHWA  
10 Pierre Bahizi   USDA/AMS  

2. Connecting  
The URL: https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc  
The call-in number: (515) 739-1285, 286074  

3. Welcome…  
Please sign in above  

4. USRNS Review and Update  
Version 2 of the USRNS Definition, Purpose, and Benefits  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XI0dJFY_aIZXaFXxSd7QF2PGBE_q73neyaj1JrpQKpQ/edit?usp=sharing  
Please read and comment by July 27th  
Review of ISO 14825  
Federal Highway expressed concern about adopting the Canadian NRN and asked that I review ISO 14825.  
ISO 14825 Intelligent transport systems -- Geographic Data Files (GDF) is the current international standard defining how to model road networks.  
Sample: Chapter 1 of version 4.0   
BTS is purchasing Version 5	  
The Canadian National Road Network is based on ISO 14825.  
Moving forward, we will emulate the canadian process but not adopt the Canadian model; We would choose the features and attributes of ISO 14825 that fit the needs of the US Road Network.  
Does ISO 14825 meet this Working Groups requirements?  
14825 provides a comprehensive road model which includes topological representation and hierarchical features, attributes, relationships.  
It’s application and vendor independent.  
Allows us to leverage existing sources  
Provides the capabilities to support core missions  
Meets the needs of geospatial stakeholders across the nation  
Status Check  
Does the WG support furnd attributes to include in the USRN Specification.  
The WG will review, comment, and adopt/reject the above content suggestions.ther evaluation of ISO 14825:2011?  
If Yes - Define model, features, and attributes:  
Compare ISO 14825:2011 to the use cases and attributes submitted by this WG.  
Based on that comparison, propose the features a  
Model last  
If no:  
Consider other standards or specifications?  
Start from scratch?  
Other suggestions?  
Other considerations? What am I missing?  What would   

5. Other USRNS Business  
Moving the USRNS-WG meeting from July 13 to July 27.  
Move TSC Meeting to 8/1/2018  

6. FGDC and TSC Business  
Move TSC Meeting to 8/1/2018  
NICBA Meeting is still on for 6/29  

7. 2018 TSC Calendar  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15kMwjbUJzoAxdZ_Ha7XmPXYqjLNVwfAAgzbsAcPfU9E/edit?usp=sharing  

8. Thank you!   
