## USDOT / USRNS-WG Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on February 23, 2018  

1. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)    
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization        
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT/BTS   	 
2  Dierdre Bevington-Attardi  US Census Bureau      
3  Dave Cackowski   US Census Bureau   
4  Ronald Vaughn   USDOT/FHWA      
5  Thomas Roff   FHWA   
6  Samantha Lubkin   FHWA   
7  Chuck Matthys   USGS   
8  Elaine Guidero  USGS   
9  Neil Trenk   US Census Bureau   
10  Wendy Hawley   US Census Bureau   
11  Mark Sarmiento   FHWA   
12  Joshua Gregg   USFS   
13  Guy Bergeron   NRCan  
14  Laurie Temple   USGS  
15  Elizabeth McCartney   USGS/NGTOC  
16  Dominic Menegus  USDOT/OST-R/BTS  
17  Gita Urban-Mathieux   USGS  
18  Kristin Fishburn  USGS  
19  Carl Albury   USFS  
20  Jordan Riddle   USDOT BTS  
21  Karen Rank   FWS  
22  Rob Dunphy   StatCan   
23  Reg Maltais  StatCan  
24  Rob Dollison  USGS   
25  Femi Adebayo USDOT BTS   
26   Dave Vincent   USGS     
 
2. Connecting  
The URL: https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc  
The call-in number: (515) 739-1285, 286074#  

3. Agenda   

3.1 Welcome  

3.2 Name Change  
	From: United States Road Network Minimum Content Guideline (USRN-MCG)  
	To: United States Road Network Specification (USRNS)  
Why:  The term specification more accurately describes what we building and conveys more confidence than the term guideline.  

3.3 Comments and Review of proposed attributes thus far  
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BOQhG6wE3DajUWPkyjGB87vTNa87Hhph?usp=sharing  
Thank you! I have reviewed them.   
I am holding my responses until I know what’s decided about adapting the Canadian NRN specification  

3.4 Purpose of Meeting  
Discuss how we might leverage the existing Canadian National Road Network specification to advance the United State Road Network Specification.  
I propose we adapt the Canadian specification to fit the transportation needs of the United States.  
Documentation of Canadian NRN Specification…   
https://open.canada.ca/data/en/dataset/3d282116-e556-400c-9306-ca1a3cada77f   
pdfs...  
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UF2ulmKyF1nZ83IzLVj2vW7kaZP7QDFO?usp=sharing  

3.5 Benefits of Adaptation  
It meets the requirements defined by this working group.  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13IibMHU6YzA7K2FpP0GwxUA7fGFu1Fju_5tM6C7PWC8/edit?usp=sharing  
It quickly advances the efforts of this working group by relying on accepted standards.  We are not reinventing the wheel; we’re modifying it to meet our needs.  
It initiates an international specification.  
Let’s talk to Mexico.  
It starts the process of establishing a data centric development model and moves us away from an application centric development model  

3.6 Discussion about the Canadian Model  
Is the conceptual model acceptable?  
	I.e.: Are the classes and schema acceptable?  
	Are there any gaps that need filling?  
Is the geometric model acceptable?  
	The model adheres to the ISO 19107 standard.  
Is the model’s positional accuracy (10 meters) acceptable?  
See section 6.3 of the NRN Specification  
https://drive.google.com/file/d/19b1fe5aWTpIT51dbm2qZZHvd8ut2GJ56/view?usp=sharing  
Need to consider if this is accurate enough.  With the advent of autonomous vehicles we might need to be much more accurate.  
Is 10 meters the minimum accepted?  
What is the positional accuracy of data submitted by states?  
	Canada collects 1 meter or “better” data  
Is the content acceptable?  
This will need reviewing to ensure we are meeting US needs.  
Road - Functional Classes need to accommodate missions of FHWA, USGS, Census and others.  

3.7 Decisions about the Canadian NRN?  
Time needed to review the conceptual model (schema, relationships, data types, etc…)?  
April 11 Decision  
Time needed to review the geometric model?  
	April 11 Decision  
Time needed to review the positional accuracy?  
	April 11 Decision  
Time needed to review the specifications content?  
	November 2018  

3.8 Will update the timeline needs updating after this meeting...  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nWVAaLvc5uATvNrXFj9VpPPjwlfdQlsw3Hbz2HsZmo8/edit?usp=sharing  

3.9 On Deck for the TSC  
2018 USRNS Meetings  
	4/11, 6/6, 8/15, 10/3, 11/5  
2018 TSC Calendar  
Jan  
Feb  
March  
TSC: 1/31 @ Web  
ICB: 2/2  
USRNS: 2/7, 2/23  
3/19 GIS-T SIG  
April  
May  
June  
USRN: 4/11  
TSC: 4/18 @ Census  
USGS/Census Roads  
TAZ Discussion  
ICB: 4/27  
USRNS: 6/6  
ICB: 6/29  
July  
August  
September  
TSC: 7/18 @ DOT  
USRNS: 8/15  
ICB: 8/31  
October  
November  
December  
USRNS: 10/3  
ICB: 10/5  
TSC: 10/17  
ICB: 11/30  
USRNS: 11/4  

3.10 Open Discussion
	Federal Land Roads - Working Group - Add Schedule to calendar  
Send Meeting invite about TSC SIG meeting  at GIS-T in Little Rock, AR - 3/20 @ 6:30  
NOAA and USGS working on 3D Nation Elevation Requirements and Benefits Study - if you are interested or have any questions contact Gita (burbanma@usgs.gov).  

3.11 Thank you!  

3.12 Resources  
Definition of Terms (All are draft definitions and open to comment)  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v5vBmus_wsk7X9khWVMinKquQ_0G9PDb9vsJkoA-x1Q/edit?usp=sharing  
Requirements  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13IibMHU6YzA7K2FpP0GwxUA7fGFu1Fju_5tM6C7PWC8/edit?usp=sharing  
Sources	https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dFgkbNAwVsN2mKWEhA1WFF3nGKHYVIt1/view?usp=sharing  
Canadian NRN Documentation  
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UF2ulmKyF1nZ83IzLVj2vW7kaZP7QDFO?usp=sharing  
Timeline  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nWVAaLvc5uATvNrXFj9VpPPjwlfdQlsw3Hbz2HsZmo8/edit?usp=sharing  
Place Holder...   
