## USDOT / USRNS - WG (US Road Network Specification) Meeting Minutes 
## Meeting on October 10, 2018  

1. Connecting:  
New Room: https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/itip/  
The call-in number: (515) 739-1285, 286074  

2. Welcome!  
Please sign in below.  
**Attendance** (Please sign in below)    
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization      
1	 Derald Dudley 	USDOT/BTS	  
2  Tom Roff   FHWA    
3  Ronald Vaughn  DOT/FHWA  
4  Chuck Matthys  USGS/NGTOC  
5  Dierdre Bevington-Attardi  Census Bureau  
6  Gita Urban-Mathieux   USGS/NGP  
7  Valerie Beaudin  Census Bureau  
8  Sharon Hawkins  ARDOT  
9  Dave Cackowski   Census Bureau  
10  Elaine Guidero   USGS/NGTOC  

3. Version 2 of the USRNS Definition, Purpose, and Benefits  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XI0dJFY_aIZXaFXxSd7QF2PGBE_q73neyaj1JrpQKpQ/edit?usp=sharing   
Accepted comments from Gita.  It reads much better now.  Thank you.  
If you have not reviewed it please do so.  
We are adding use cases in the Complimentary Missions section  

4. Sharing ISO 14825:2011 -Intelligent transport systems -- Geographic Data Files (GDF) -- GDF5.0  
https://www.iso.org/files/live/sites/isoorg/files/store/en/PUB100206.pdf  
I have contacted the  American National Standards Institute (ANSI) about getting a license that will allow us to share ISO 14825:2011 among the working group. My inquiry was forwarded to their sales department.  They’re reviewing my request for a “site license”.  
No news on the site license. I will find and call someone at ANSI that can help.  

5. Feature and Attribute Recommendations  
We are identifying the features and attributes necessary for detailing the base specification.  The base specification defines the essential features and attributes needed to meet critical road management missions. Critical road management missions are Identifying, Locating, and Classifying Roads;  
Feature Recommendations from ISO14825:2011  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/19xCrX6pAtkVZOY0l0YR5ruP7UYqoWxfj_PwCuQrseDQ/edit?usp=sharing  
Thoughts on Features List  
Attribute Recommendations from ISO14825:2011  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y_aG9HOnsjnQ0qYXGbZVg_1CSEBabIFnCmPO_Mnfdro/edit?usp=sharing  
Thoughts on Attributes List   

6. USRNS Agenda  
Continue to Review Features and Attributes.    
Please be familiar with them before the November 15th Meeting  
Set up November meeting    
Checking Space (Reston, censu. Keck Center)  
Let’s have a facilitator  
Invites: All  
Attendees: ~25?  
Goals  
Agree on the features and attributes needed to locate, identify, and classify roads  
Identify the complementary missions for which the remaining features and attributes can be used.  
Agenda  
Feature Review (Essentials /Optional/No thanks)  
Attribute Review (Essentials/Optional/No thanks)   
What happens after we agree to the content of the specification?  
Review the geometric model (How are the data stored?)  
What else?  
Start Community Outreach and garner Community Buy-In  
Private Sector  
Wait - Clarify our message - Make sure they do not perceive it as competition, use cases  
Federal/Tribal Governments   
State Governments   
GIS-T    
Local Governments    
Seminars / Conferences   
GIS-T April 2019 - Derald    
NGAC December 6th webinar - John Mahoney, FGDC  (jmahoney@usgs.gov)    
Address Subcommittee (Steve Lewis and Lynda Liptrap)    
NSGIC - Meet Twice a Year - Conference 2019 (Lynda Liptrap)   
Integration with other standards   
OpenStreetMap Group - Talk to TR   
SharedStreets -    

7. Status Check  
What are we missing?  
Whats Next?  

8. Other USRNS Business  
Next Meetings?  
Mid Nov 15 (Face to Face)  
Jan...  

9. FGDC and TSC Business  
2018 TSC Calendar  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15kMwjbUJzoAxdZ_Ha7XmPXYqjLNVwfAAgzbsAcPfU9E/edit?usp=sharing  
Subcommittee Meeting on 10/17 at 1400 @ Census  

10. Action Items  
Write long term project plan.  
Assign tasks  
Derald - Find and call someone at ANSI that can help with licensing.  
Derald - Coordinate ISO 14825 with Address Database Standard. Steve Lewis, Linda Liptrap and Jon Duran  
Gita Space Dates (11/8, 11/9, 11/19) - USGS  
Dierdre Space and Dates  (11/8, 11/9, 11/19) - Census  
T. Roff Space and Dates  (11/8, 11/9, 11/19) at the Keck Center  
Derald Goals and Agenda for November Meeting  

11. Thank you!   
