## USDOT / United States Road Network Specification  
## Dated May 30, 2018   

**What:** The United State Road Network Specification (USRNS) is an explicit, comprehensive, and
consistent, definition of the objects, classes, attributes, and associations needed to model road
phenomena in the United States. The specification, developed in collaboration with interested data
providers and users, provides guidance and sets the criteria to determine compliance.   

**Why:** Implementing the USRNS will ease the collection, integration, compilation, publication,
consumption, and analysis, of road data by establishing accurate, concise, and stable vocabulary,
semantic, format, and quality criteria.   

**Benefits:**  
USRNS compliant organizations will reduce their costs by  
 Compartmentalization of responsibility  
o A well-defined data model identifies redundancies in data collection and maintenance.  
o Agencies and organizations could be easily assigned the collection and maintenance
responsibilities for specific portion of the specification without the fear of duplicating efforts   
o Integrating data from different sources is made possible by the specification  
 Reduce the cost of software development   
o Well-defined data models   
 Clarify the work an application must accomplish.   
 Reduce the time and effort needed to analyze and design functional requirements.   
 Reduce data errors   
 Speed application development   
 Clarify scope  
 Increase performance  
o Provide better documentation  
o Facilitate the publication of road data services  
o Facilitate the use of APIs to access road data services  
o Facilitate data mining  
 Reduce costs through shared resources  
o Shared application development costs. (An application developed in compliance with the
specification will work for any organization that adheres to the specification.)  
o Specification compliant organizations could share the cost of cloud computing:   
Infrastructure as a service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), Software as a Service (SaaS),
Mobile “Backend” as a service (MBaaS)   

**Audience:** All organizations, agencies, and companies with an interest in modeling, collecting,
integrating, compiling, publishing, or analyzing road phenomena in the United States.   

**Data Sources:** The specification is an instrument to ease the collection, compilation, integration,
publication, consumption, and analysis of U.S. road phenomena. It does not set policy.  
