
Attendance (Please sign in below…)


Name
Organization
Email
1
Derald Dudley
USDOT/BTS
derald.dudley@dot.gov
2  Jonathan Duran   Arkansas GIS Office
3  Chuck Matthys   USGS
4  Sheila Steffenson   1Spatial
5  Sharon Hawkins   ARDOT
6  Gita Urban-Mathieux   USGS/NGP
7  Samantha Lubkin   USDOT/FHWA
8  Neil Trenk   Census
9  David Cackowski   Census
10  Tom Roff   FHWA
11  Thomas Craig   Trillium
12  Jim Talley   USDOT/FHWA/Eastern Federal Lands Hwy Division
13  Dierdre Bevington-Attardi   Census
14  Dominic Menegus   USDOT/BTS
15  Elizabeth McCartney  USGS
16  Chad Baker   Caltrans
17  Amy Nelson   US DOT/PHMSA
18  Mark Sarmiento   USDOT/FHWA
19  Valerie Beaudin   Census

Connecting
The URL: https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc
The call-in number: (515) 739-1285, 286074

Welcome…
Please sign in above

Version 2 of the USRNS Definition, Purpose, and Benefits
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XI0dJFY_aIZXaFXxSd7QF2PGBE_q73neyaj1JrpQKpQ/edit?usp=sharing
Do we need to tweak this any further?

Review of ISO 14825:2011
So far I’ve reviewed the Features Catalog and Attributes Catalog

How to share Standard with Group
https://www.iso.org/files/live/sites/isoorg/files/store/en/PUB100206.pdf

Sections
Scope
Normative References
Terms and Definitions
Symbolization and notation elements
Overall conceptual data model
Feature Catalog
Attribute Catalog
Relationship Catalog
Feature representation rule
Metadata Catalog
Logical Data Structures
Media Record Specifications
XML schema specifications
SQL encoding specifications

Feature Catalog
Real world objects or activities at certain locations are represented as features.  Examples of real world objects are are roads and buildings.  Examples of activities at a certain location are the services.  Singular features may be grouped into Feature Themes such as Roads and Ferries.
Roads and Ferries
Address Area
An area containing addresses which cannot be related to one or more Road Element.
Address Area Boundary Element
A representation of the boundary of an Address Area.
Aggregated Way
A set of associated Road Elements and, optionally, Junctions which share a common function or characteristic.
Enclosed Traffic Area
Any confined area within which unstructured traffic movements are allowed.
Ferry
A set of Ferry Connections that describe a passage of a particular ferry line.
Ferry Connection
A vehicle transport path between two fixed locations on the road network which uses a prescribed mode of transport.
Interchange
An Interchange is a collection of road sections, slip roads and/or carriageways dedicated to facilitating the movement of traffic through a crossing between two or more road ways.
Intersection
The Level 2 representation of a crossing. An Intersection can be part of a Level-2 network by bounding Roads and/or Ferries. It is a Complex Feature composed of one or more Level 1 Junctions, Road Elements and Enclosed Traffic Areas.
Junction
A Feature that bounds a Road Element, a Pathway, an Address Area Boundary Element, or a Ferry Connection.
Pathway
A linear section of the earth which is exclusively designed for or the result of the movement of pedestrian and non-motorised/non-road vehicles.
Road
A Level 2 Feature composed of one, many or no Road Elements and joining two Intersections. It serves as the smallest independent unit of a road network at Level 2.
Road Element
A linear section of the earth which is designed for or the result of vehicular movement. It serves as the smallest unit of the road network at Level 1 that is independent and having a Junction at each end.
Roundabout
A Roundabout is a simple closed one way loop in the road network that regulates traffic flow at the meeting of roads at grade.
Topological relations between Junctions, Road ELements, Pathways, Enclosed Traffic Areas, Ferry Connections and Address Boundary Elements

Administrative Areas
Named Areas
Land Cover and Use
Terrain Elevation
Structures
Railways
Waterways
Road Furniture
Services
Public Transport
Linear Referencing Features
Linear Datum Features
General Features
Attributes for the Roads and Ferries Feature Theme
Properties of real world objects are represented as Attributes.
Attributes can be simple, composite, or sub-attributes

Simple Attributes are “stand alone” attributes. 
An example of a simple attribute is width.

Composite Attributes combine simple attributes with sub-attributes. 
An example of a composite attribute is Official Street Name which has the following Sub-Attributes
Directional Prefix
Street Type Prefix
Official Street Name Body - Mandatory
Trailing Spaces
Directional Suffix
Composite Pronunciation

List of attributes for the Roads and Ferries Feature Theme
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1u6sOg1gJk1UXHmpyFiVgZQ1i7FehP0e-QwpINlJhmVA/edit?usp=sharing

Status Check
Plan is to continue with the comparison of of ISO 14825:2011 to the use cases, features, attributes, relationships, and etc. submitted to this working group.
Are there any suggestions about our current methodology?

Other USRNS Business
Next Meeting - September 12 at 1400

FGDC and TSC Business
2018 TSC Calendar
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15kMwjbUJzoAxdZ_Ha7XmPXYqjLNVwfAAgzbsAcPfU9E/edit?usp=sharing

Thank you!
