
## USDOT / US Road Specification Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on June 27, 2018  

1. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)    
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization        
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT/BTS	  
2  Chuck Matthys   USGS  
3  Tom Roff   FHWA  
4  Sharon Hawkins   ARDOT  
5  Ronald Vaughn   USDOT/FHWA  
6  Elaine Guidero   USGS  
7  JD Kronicz   Penn State  
8  Dierdre Bevington-Attardi   Census Bureau  
9  Tammy Ratliff   FHWA/EFLHD    

2. Connecting   
The URL: https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc   
The call-in number: (515) 739-1285, 286074  

3. Welcome and thanks....    

4. Review   
Item 1: Do you approve the adoption of the classes and relationships (not the attributes), as defined in Canadian National Road Network’s Conceptual Data Model, for inclusion in the United States Road Network Specification.   
Item 2: Do you approve the adoption of the Geometric Model, as defined in the Canadian National Road Network’s Conceptual Data Model, for inclusion in the United States Road Network Specification.   
Item 3: Do you approve the adoption of the Positional Accuracy, as defined in the Canadian National Road Network’s Data Product Specification.   

5. Voting Rules   
From the current Charter - Not the Charter Ron has updated   
MEMBERSHIP  
Membership in the Subcommittee shall be comprised of voting members and Partners.  
Voting Members: These are representatives from agencies that are members of the FGDC. These agencies are Federal agencies that collect, or finance the collection of, transportation data as part of their mission or have direct application of these data through legislated mandate. Each member agency of the Subcommittee shall designate its representative, an alternate if necessary, and changes thereto, to the Subcommittee. Other organizations may be added with the concurrence of the Subcommittee Co-chairs such as Federal departments or agencies that are not members of the FGDC, but have significant activities in geographic information or spatial data collection or use. Upon acceptance, they assume the same responsibilities and privileges as other members of the FGDC.    
Partners: Federal or non-federal organizations may serve as Collaborating Partners by requesting official stakeholder status to the Subcommittee. Collaborating Partners are encouraged to participate in all Subcommittee business and its working groups and provide input into all decisions. Official voting privileges are not extended to Collaborating Partners.    
PROCEDURES  
Subcommittee meetings shall be held at the call of the Subcommittee Co-chairs. Normally, notification of meetings and an agenda will be distributed to members of the Subcommittee and to the FGDC Executive Secretary 10 Federal working days in advance of the meeting. All decisions shall be on the basis of consensus agreement. If appropriate, where agreement is not reached, the issue will be promptly referred to the FGDC Executive Secretary to be scheduled for resolution.   
The Subcommittee Co-chairs shall consult with the FGDC Coordination Group to determine the need for further coordination prior to implementing Subcommittee decisions that impact the FGDC or its other subcommittees or working groups. The Subcommittee may establish additional rules and procedures for conducting business.   

6. Voting  
**Item 1:** Do you approve the adoption of the classes and relationships (not the attributes), as defined in Canadian National Road Network’s Conceptual Data Model, for inclusion in the United States Road Network Specification.   
Discussion and  comments  
TR: Feel More comfortable what the network is supposed to achieve   
	Uncomfortable with voting without having a clear definition of what the network is for.   
	D.B. Internal discussion - comfortable with model as long as the attributes provided by census  
	C.M. USGS is more of a user of the data not a collector - Model is ok.  
Gita: If the data producers determine this fits their requirements and capacity for data production we support adoption.  The USGS/NGP are users of the data and believe this can meet our needs.  
	R.V. - Road Network Definition  
Vote   
✓ Item 1 vote  
**Department   Agency**  Representative  **For**   Against   Abstain   
Agriculture USFS   
Commerce  Census   ✓   
Defense   
Education   
Energy   
Health and Human Services   
Homeland Security   
Housing Urban Development   
Interior  FWS   
Interior  USGS   ✓   
Justice  
Labor  
State  
Transportation  OST  
Transportation  BTS  Derald Dudley  ✓  
Transportation  FHWA  
Treasury  
Veterans Affairs  
**Item 2:** Do you approve the adoption of the Geometric Model, as defined in the Canadian National Road Network’s Conceptual Data Model, for inclusion in the United States Road Network Specification.  
Discussion and Comment  
Vote	  	
✓ Item 2 vote  
**Department   Agency**  Representative  **For**   Against   Abstain   
Agriculture USFS   
Commerce  Census   ✓   
Defense   
Education   
Energy   
Health and Human Services   
Homeland Security   
Housing Urban Development   
Interior  FWS   
Interior  USGS   ✓   
Justice  
Labor  
State  
Transportation  OST  
Transportation  BTS  Derald Dudley  ✓  
Transportation  FHWA  
Treasury  
Veterans Affairs  
**Item 3:** Do you approve the adoption of the Positional Accuracy, as defined in the Canadian National Road Network’s Data Product Specification.  
Discussion and Comment  
Vote  
✓ Item 3 vote  
**Department   Agency**  Representative  **For**   Against   Abstain     
Agriculture USFS   
Commerce  Census   ✓   
Defense   
Education   
Energy   
Health and Human Services   
Homeland Security   
Housing Urban Development   
Interior  FWS   
Interior  USGS   ✓   
Justice  
Labor  
State  
Transportation  OST  
Transportation  BTS  Derald Dudley  ✓  
Transportation  FHWA  
Treasury  
Veterans Affairs  

7. Next Steps  
Write Network-Definition  
General Statement to group for review by May 1  
General Purposes (Why and What)  
Who is the audience  
Operation? / Analytical?  
Sources of Data - Base Data  
Contributing Agencies  
Mission focus / what purposes does it serve  
Content Review  
Compare the Canadian NRN class attributes to the attributes submitted by this working group  
Identify matches  
Identify gaps  
Review the matching attributes and the Conceptual Data Model to corroborate their placement in the schema.  
Review the missing attributes and determine a plan of action  
Review the Canadian Product Specification to determine if it fits our needs.  

8. Schedule  
May 1 Network Definition to USRNS-WG  
May 16 comments and review of Network Definition  
Complete and present the attribute at the 6/6 meeting  
Complete and present the Specification Review at the 6/6 meeting  
Vote on attributes and specification in July 13th meeting.  

9. On Deck for the TSC  
2018 USRNS Meetings  
4/11, 5/16, 6/6, 7/13, 8/15, 10/3, 11/5  
2018 TSC Calendar  
Jan  
Feb  
March  
TSC: 1/31 @ Web  
ICB: 2/2  
USRNS: 2/7, 2/23  
3/19 GIS-T SIG  
April  
May  
June  
USRN: 4/11  
TSC: 4/18 @ Census  
USGS/Census Roads  
TAZ Discussion  
ICB: 4/27  
USRNS-WG 5/16  
USRNS: 6/6  
ICB: 6/29  
July  
August  
September  
USRNS: 7/13  
TSC: 7/18 @ DOT (Derald on Vaca)  
USRNS: 8/15  
ICB: 8/31  
October  
November  
December  
USRNS: 10/3  
ICB: 10/5  
TSC: 10/17  
ICB: 11/30  
USRNS: 11/4  

10. Open Discussion  
Current  
From last meeting  
Federal Land Roads - Working Group - Add Schedule to calendar  
Send Meeting invite about TSC SIG meeting  at GIS-T in Little Rock, AR - 3/20 @ 6:30  
NOAA and USGS working on 3D Nation Elevation Requirements and Benefits Study - if you are interested or have any questions contact Gita (burbanma@usgs.gov).   

11. Thank you!   

12. Resources   
Definition of Terms (All are draft definitions and open to comment)  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v5vBmus_wsk7X9khWVMinKquQ_0G9PDb9vsJkoA-x1Q/edit?usp=sharing   
Requirements  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13IibMHU6YzA7K2FpP0GwxUA7fGFu1Fju_5tM6C7PWC8/edit?usp=sharing   
Sources  
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dFgkbNAwVsN2mKWEhA1WFF3nGKHYVIt1/view?usp=sharing   
Canadian NRN Documentation  
https://drive.google.com/file/d/16FXkJVr2usuVw9TdWSg4FqxrKWi71qpJ/view?usp=sharing   
Timeline   
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nWVAaLvc5uATvNrXFj9VpPPjwlfdQlsw3Hbz2HsZmo8/edit?usp=sharing  
Placeholder...  
