## USDOT / ARNOLD Working Group Meeting Minutes     
## Meeting on April 11, 2017   (1830 to 2000)  
### GIS-T Conference, Sheraton Grand Phoenix, Coronado Room (3rd FLOOR)  

**Minimum Content Guideline (MCG) for the National All Roads Network - PowerPoint Presentation:**    
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B5DYuG8k2YIKNS15T3lqd0FJNnc   

1. Intro  
1.1 Background  
Where we were  
Where we are  
Where we’re going  
1.2 Purpose of ARNOLD (FHWA purpose is different than NSDI purpose)  
Goal/Objective: Via a coordinated effort between the States and Federal government, develop and maintain a national geospatial network that supports various activities related to the planning and management of the nation’s roadway system.  
As a result, the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) requires the States to provide an all public roads network as part of the annual Highway Performance Monitoring System (HPMS) data submittal. This network is referred to as the All Roads Network of Linear-referenced Data (ARNOLD), and supports various agency objectives including, but not limited to, condition and performance monitoring, safety and freight analysis, performance management, and Federal-aid project authorization.  
Although it is collected as part of the HPMS program, ARNOLD goes beyond FHWA and the USDOT.  Ultimately, an enhanced version of this network will serve as a National Geospatial Data Asset and become the road layer in the Transportation Theme of the National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI), at which point it will be capable of supporting various “big picture” business needs and initiatives such as Next Generation (NG911) and safety innovations.  The TSC will facilitate this by developing a minimum content guideline for ARNOLD.  
1.3 Why is the ARNOLD MCS important?  
The ARNOLD linework has little to no attribution and the HPMS attributes that are added via linear referencing are all conditions and performance based and not useful to the majority of users.  
In order for ARNOLD to be a NGDA and the road layer of the Transportation Theme of the NSDI, it must meet the needs of the transportation geospatial community.  The MCS is a start at this and it will be followed by edge matching and establishing network topology.  

2. Propose Definition of Minimum Content  
The minimum number of atts that would make the data useful to the largest audience  

3. Path to Minimum Content Standard  
3.1 Call for Schemas  
3.2 Schema Comparisons  
Patrick Whiteford, Arizona  
Sarah B Wray, North Carolina  
Sharon Hawkins, Arkansas  
Straw Man, USDOT  
3.3 Use-Cases  

4. Nominate chair and co-chair of the sub group  
Derald and Ron will manage meeting logistics  
