## USDOT / US Road Specification Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on August 29, 2017  
### USRN-MCG-WG‌ ‌Review‌ ‌Inventory‌ ‌Attributes‌ 

1. Welcome   
2. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)      
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization            
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT/BTS      
2  Tom Roff   FHWA  
3  Rich Grady   AppGeo  
4  James K. Graham   DDOT  
5  Jeromy Barnes   FHWA  

3. Purpose  
Status Update  
Discuss and review the attributes submitted for the Inventory Use Case  
Discuss next steps  

4. Status  
Attribute Collection  
The attributes for the inventory use case have been collected and stored consolidated in this google document.   
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lDEGQ3Z8tiqUcqppCJGSUAyLy1tLVmEgRUsuR1Qp7gk/edit  
The collected attributes have been added to the following google sheet for review and categorization.  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xw335aPuK8oGs8er7AVs1is4ZmziCa4w1WqKWgUbrGA/edit#gid=0  
Next steps  
Consolidate the attributes   
Identify duplicate attributes and find a common name for them.  Eg. Functional Class, Road Class, and Road Classification all store the same data.  These kinds of fields need to be identified and a common name found for all of them.  
Check Categorization of attributes.  
To help organize the attributes I have grouped them by the following categories.  Are they appropriate?  Should there be more?  Should there be fewer?  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Identity &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   Describes the how the road is identified  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Type &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   Describe the kind of road.  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Location &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   Describes where the road is.  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Use &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   Describes how the road is used.  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Authority &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   Describes organizations responsible for the road.  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Flow &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   Describes how traffic traverses the road  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Routing &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;    Describes how traffic is controlled.  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Metadata &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   Describes information about the road data  
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Characteristic &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;    Describes physical attribute about the road  
Are they ready to be forwarded this to the TSC for review?  

5. Open Discussion  
Agreed on consolidation of attributes  
Agreed on finding a common name for attributes.  
Agreed that the working group should make a recommendation for each attribute  
Required  
Optional  
Rejected  
Define the USRN and its purpose  
Define the MCG and its purpose  
Have common identifiers (attributes?) that can be shared across sources so the can be linked across data sets and organizations  
Many states don't want the responsibility of assigning/maintaining road names   
State DOTs don’t consider themselves the authoritative source of road names  
Who is the authoritative source for road names  
Addressing needs to be addressed. (Ha!)  
Canadian NRN captures address ranges.   
Is this a non issue with the National Address Database.  
How does the USRN and NAD play together  
Greatest Service to the nation is high quality, minimalist, and scalable.    
How can other orgs hook their data into the MCG.    
MCG should be the base to which other organizations can add to.  
Create a national center line dataset   
What’s holding keeping us getting there.  
E.g. state to state connections  
Convince local players to participate  
How does DOT make the data collected (e.g. HPMS, NHPN) the authoritative source of road data  
Networking attributes optional for analysis purposes  
From States perspective: Asset management and maintenance is primary motivation.    
Efforts to create or maintain attributes that don't support this mission are superfluous.  
Include network interconnectivity for future use…  
A spec defining what’s needed for interconnectivity and routing would be welcome by some dots (DDOT)  
States would look for funding for inclusion of extra attributes.like street names and interconnectivities between states  
AL internal street name needs met by conflating with OSM data to AL data  
A lot of money spent on TIGER why do companies spend their own money on commercial road networks (here, tom-tom).  Why?  We don’t compete with TIGER by providing HQ data from the source.  

6. Closing  
Next Meeting? Middle October.   

7. Review of MCG Strategy  
The NRN working group was established at the GIS-T conference in April 2017  
At the meeting Tom Roff (FHWA) and Sharon Hawkins were elected as the co-chairs of the working group  
The working group’s first task will be to define a minimum content guideline for the USRN  
The MCG will identify which attributes make the National Road Network meaningful to the Transportation Community  
A list of use cases for the NRN was brainstormed at the GIS-T conference  
Study each use case to determine what attributes are needed to fulfill its purpose.  
The attributes essential to fulfilling  the use cases will be used to define the MCG.  
The inventory attributes will be submitted to the transportation sub committee for review and acceptance.  
After the inventory attributes have been accepted the NRN working group will discuss if the content meets the needs of the MCG.  
If not the process will continue with the review of the planning and safety use cases.   
