

FGDC Transportation Subcommittee Meeting
U.S. DOT Headquarters
March 24, 2017

Federal agencies & partners in attendance:

•	DOT (OST-R, NHTSA, FHWA, PHMSA, FRA, PHMSA)
•	Dept. of Commerce (Census Bureau)
•	DOI (USGS, NPS, Fish & Wildlife, BLM, Forest Service)
•	Private Sector (ESRI, AppGeo)
•	State DOTs (Arkansas, North Carolina)

Minutes/Notes: 

ARNOLD Presentation (T. Roff)
•	FHWA’s mission focuses on safety, mobility, infrastructure condition, program delivery, apportionment, etc.
•	FHWA’s Federal-aid programs are largely gas tax funded
•	MAP-21 now FAST Act legislation includes varies Transportation Performance Management (TPM)-based initiatives that will rely heavily on the Highway Performance Monitoring System (HPMS)
•	Federal Lands public mileage / HPMS network data coordination efforts are underway
•	ARNOLD (All Roads Network of Linear-referenced Data) dataset will ultimately support various DOT data programs (e.g., freight, safety, pipeline, bridge, Federal-aid project, etc.)
•	FHWA-NHTSA FARS (Fatal Accident Reporting System) data integration efforts are forthcoming which will ultimately support various TPM-related efforts
•	ARNOLD accuracy specifications require further discussion; existing ARNOLD structure/schema includes year of record, unique route identifier, State Code, and geometry information
•	ARNOLD, in its current format, does not support autonomous vehicle-related initiatives
•	Topological requirements for ARNOLD need to be discussed/determined
•	Other Federal agencies’ (i.e., non-DOT) needs/requirements of ARNOLD need to be gathered/discussed
•	The feasibility non-LRS-based requirements from other Federal agencies requires discussion

ARNOLD Minimum Content Standard Discussion (D. Dudley / S. Lewis)
•	TSC subgroups need to be established for the purpose of developing minimum content standard
•	Use-cases for minimum content standard need to be assembled per feedback gathered from the TSC’s various partnering entities
•	TSC Subgroup Volunteers: 
o	National Park Service (NPS)
o	FHWA HQ & Federal Lands
o	NHTSA
o	USGS
o	Census
o	ARHTD
o	North Carolina DOT 
o	AppGeo
•	TSC subgroup meetings to be held monthly beginning in mid-to-late April following the GIS-T Conference 
•	Volunteers for future presentations from non-DOT entities desired immediately

TSC Next Steps:

•	Monthly TSC ARNOLD MCS subgroup meetings to be scheduled
•	Additional ARNOLD MCS subgroup participation to be requested via email
•	DOI agency participants to be canvassed for presentations to be delivered during the next TSC meeting 
•	TSC site “Calendar of Events” to be developed possibly via the Transportation Community page on the Geospatial Platform site - TBD

