## USDOT / US Road Specification Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on April 27, 2020   
 

2. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)    
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization     
1  Derald Dudley   USDOT, BTS, OSAV   derald.dudley@dot.gov  


Connecting:
Conference Room: E36-124 (NA - teleworking for now)
**Web meeting:**  https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc
Conference Call: (515) 606-5187, 286074#   

Previous Minutes: NA  

Please Sign In:
2. **Attendance** (Please sign in below)    
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization      
1	Tom Roff	FHWA	Thomas.Roff@dot.gov  
2	Derald Dudley	BTS/OSAV	Derald.Dudley@dot.gov  
3	Leslie Haig	Spatial Front, Inc.	Leslie.Haig.ctr@dot.gov  
4	Elaine Guidero	USGS/NGTOC	eguidero@usgs.gov  
5	Justin Clarke	FHWA	justin.clarke@dot.gov  
6	Gita Urban-Mathieux	USGS/NGP	urbanma@usgs.gov  
7	Mark Sarmiento	FHWA	mark.sarmiento@dot.gov  
8	Chris Allen	FHWA	Chris.Allen@dot.gov  
9	Dave Cackowski	Census	G .David.Cackowski@census.gov  
10	Dierdre Bevington-Attardi	Census	Dierdre.Bevington.Attardi@census.gov  
11	Joseph Hausman	FHWA Planning	Joseph.Hausman@dot.gov  
12	Leo Gallagher		  
13	Wesley Rutland-Brown	FHWA in CA	Wesley.Rutland-Brown@dot.gov  
14	David Winter	FHWA	David.Winter@dot.gov  

1.	Welcome / Introductions  

2.	USRS-WG Purpose   
&nbsp; &nbsp;- Relation to the Road Classification Working Group  
&nbsp; &nbsp;- Relation to the Federal Land Roads Working Group.  
 
3.	Road Specifications review on progress.  
&nbsp; &nbsp;- Charter review  
Charter will be posted to geoPlatform   
Please review - Vote to adopt next meeting  

4.	Clarifying need, usage and authority.  
**Question 1: Why does your Agency need a National Road Network?**  
 	__FHWA__- Concerned with Planning, Construction, Maintenance, Operations, Safety, and Funding of all Public Highways and Bridges in the U.S.  
 	Provide Ground truth for HPMS which is the Inventory, Use, and Condition of all public roads in the US.  
 	Provide a spatial framework for other datasets in the FHWA including National Bridge Inventory, Functional Classification, National Highway System, FHWA Adjusted Urban Boundaries.  
 	Provide Spatial Referencing to Highway projects through the Fiscal Management Information System(FMIS)  
 	Provide a spatial highway safety analysis and modelling platform (Intersection modelling)  
 	Provide a spatial platform to do highway freight operations analysis at a national level. (Routing)  
 	National emergency response and relief   
	Ownership and Management of Federal Land Management Agency Roads.  
 	There is some debate over automated vehicles, Real time navigation, Work Zones etc. and the Role of FHWA.  
 	__USDOT__ -  
 	Railroad crossings link to data in HPMS  
 	Fatal Accident Reporting System ( NHTSA/FARS)   
 	National Address Database  
 	__US-Census__-   
 	NGDA Theme   
 	HIFLD  
 	Address theme advisors (Title 13 restrictions)  
 	Address Ranges  
 	Roads could bound census blocks  
 	Interior  
 	__USGS__  
 	National Map  
 	Federal Lands    
**Question 2: Does your Agency possess a National Road Network?**  
 	__FHWA__ -  
1.	Highway Performance Monitoring System-  
1.	Includes ARNOLD which is a requirement to State DOTs for a Highway Network to link their Attributes.  
2.	FHWA has the following Spatial Products  
1.	NHPN - National Highway Planning Network   
2.	FAF- Freight Analysis Framework Derived from the NHPN  
3.	HPMS Pilot - Congress has directed to create a National Connected Network from the Data in HPMS  
2.	__US CENSUS__  
1.	TIGER-  
1.	Includes 7M miles  
2.	Connected edge matched  
3.	Dual Carriageway  
4.	Incremental updates  
3.	__USGS__  
1.	TIGER + Fedlands Agencies  
2.	Road classification  
3.	3 yr updates  
4.	CENSUS Partnership  
**Question 3: Where does your Agencies National Road Network have Authority?**
1.	__FHWA__- Is the authority for the number of Miles, Lane-miles and Vehicle Miles travelled of all public roads in the U.S.  
1.	FHWA has the authority to designate the Interstate System, Functional Classification, The National Highway System, The Strategic Highway Network.  
1.	Fed Aid Eligibility.    
2.	The FHWA has the authority to require State DOTs to have access to certain safety related data.  
3.	The FHWA is required to provide HPMS including ARNOLD to NARA.  
2.	CENSUS  
1.	FGDC - NGDA Dataset owner  
2.	Partnership Program  
3.	Locate housing Units for locals  
3.	USGS  
1.	Topographic Maps 100+ Year History  

5.	Open Discussion  

6.	Next Steps  
  ID	Action	Name	Due Date  
	 	 
7.	Close and Thank you   



[Charter](https://github.com/BTS-OSAV/FGDC-Geospatial-Transportation-Subcommittee/blob/master/Working%20Groups/US%20Road%20Specification/Charter.md)
