## USDOT / US Road Specification Meeting Minutes   
## Meeting on April 27, 2020  

Connecting:  
Conference Room: E36-124 (NA - teleworking for now)  
**Web meeting:**  https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/fgdc_tsc  
Conference Call: (515) 606-5187, 286074#    

Previous Minutes: NA  

Please Sign In:  
**Attendance** (Please sign in below)    
ID &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Name &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Organization      
1	Tom Roff	FHWA	Thomas.Roff@dot.gov  
2	Derald Dudley	BTS/OSAV	Derald.Dudley@dot.gov  
3	Leslie Haig	Spatial Front, Inc.	Leslie.Haig.ctr@dot.gov  
4	Elaine Guidero	USGS/NGTOC	eguidero@usgs.gov  
5	Justin Clarke	FHWA	justin.clarke@dot.gov  
6	Gita Urban-Mathieux	USGS/NGP	urbanma@usgs.gov  
7	Mark Sarmiento	FHWA	mark.sarmiento@dot.gov  
8	Chris Allen	FHWA	Chris.Allen@dot.gov  
9	Dave Cackowski	Census	G .David.Cackowski@census.gov  
10	Dierdre Bevington-Attardi	Census	Dierdre.Bevington.Attardi@census.gov  
11	Joseph Hausman	FHWA Planning	Joseph.Hausman@dot.gov  
12	Leo Gallagher		  
13	Wesley Rutland-Brown	FHWA in CA	Wesley.Rutland-Brown@dot.gov  
14	David Winter	FHWA	David.Winter@dot.gov  

1.	Welcome / Introductions  

2.	USRS-WG Purpose   
&nbsp; &nbsp;- Relation to the Road Classification Working Group  
&nbsp; &nbsp;- Relation to the Federal Land Roads Working Group.  
 
3.	Road Specifications review on progress.  
&nbsp; &nbsp;- Charter review  
Charter will be posted to [geoPlatform](https://github.com/BTS-OSAV/FGDC-Geospatial-Transportation-Subcommittee/blob/master/Working%20Groups/US%20Road%20Specification/Charter.md)      
Please review - Vote to adopt next meeting  

4.	Clarifying need, usage and authority.  
**Question 1: Why does your Agency need a National Road Network?**   
__FHWA__    
Concerned with Planning, Construction, Maintenance, Operations, Safety, and Funding of all Public Highways and Bridges in the U.S.  
Provide Ground truth for HPMS which is the Inventory, Use, and Condition of all public roads in the US.  
Provide a spatial framework for other datasets in the FHWA including National Bridge Inventory, Functional Classification, National Highway System, FHWA Adjusted Urban Boundaries.  
Provide Spatial Referencing to Highway projects through the Fiscal Management Information System (FMIS)  
Provide a spatial highway safety analysis and modelling platform (Intersection modelling)  
Provide a spatial platform to do highway freight operations analysis at a national level. (Routing)  
National emergency response and relief   
Ownership and Management of Federal Land Management Agency Roads.  
There is some debate over automated vehicles, Real time navigation, Work Zones etc. and the Role of FHWA.  
(Also, we could possibly include FEMA and their opinion, Safety Analysis, Routing at the national level, National Hurricane Response, RR crossings linked to roads, and Safety systems.)  
__USDOT__   
&nbsp; &nbsp;Railroad crossings link to data in HPMS  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Fatal Accident Reporting System (NHTSA/FARS)   
&nbsp; &nbsp;National Address Database  
__US-Census__    
&nbsp; &nbsp;NGDA Theme   
&nbsp; &nbsp;HIFLD  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Address theme advisors (Title 13 restrictions)  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Address Ranges  
&nbsp; &nbsp;Roads could bound census blocks  
__Interior - USGS__  
Used in support of scientific missions, emergency management, recreation, land management decisions, and other activities.   
Nationally consistent geospatial data is required to meet these needs. The data is integrated with the other National Map datasets - boundaries, elevation, geographic names, hydrography, land cover, orthoimagery, structures.  
The National Map and its applications involve significant multi-scale mapping, and we need an authoritative dataset that supports improved cartographic representation at medium and small scales.  
(Department of Interior oversees USGS, as well as Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of Reclamation, Fish and Wildlife Service, National Park Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs, etc.)     
**Question 2: Does your Agency possess a National Road Network?**    
 	__FHWA__     
	Highway Performance Monitoring System-  
	Includes ARNOLD which is a requirement to State DOTs for a Highway Network to link their Attributes.  
	FHWA has the following Spatial Products  
	&nbsp; &nbsp;NHPN - National Highway Planning Network (since 1991)  
	&nbsp; &nbsp;FAF- Freight Analysis Framework Derived from the NHPN  
	&nbsp; &nbsp;HPMS Pilot - Congress has directed to create a National Connected Network from the Data in HPMS   
	__US CENSUS__   
	&nbsp; &nbsp;TIGER-  
	Includes 7M miles (TIGER created in 1980s)   
	Connected edge matched    
	Dual Carriageway    
	Incremental updates (twice yearly, from partnership data and road completion, no routing)     
	__USGS__      
	There is a roads layer in The National Map transportation dataset - https://www.usgs.gov/core-science-systems/national-geospatial-program/national-map  
	Aggregated data from multiple authoritative sources - Primary source is TIGER data, with additional data from Fed Land Agencies (such as USFS, NPS) and AKDOT  
	Add a USGS functional road class to categorize roads   
	Include ferries, routes and tunnels  
	All USGS data in the public domain  
	Does not hold full source attributes  
	Do not have attributes for geocoding or address ranges  
	Rolling 3 year updates on a state-by-state basis  
	Maintained through a USGS-CENSUS Partnership  
**Question 3: Where does your Agencies National Road Network have Authority?**  
	__FHWA__   
	Is the authority for the number of Miles, Lane-miles and Vehicle Miles travelled of all public roads in the U.S.  
	FHWA has the authority to designate the Interstate System, Functional Classification, The National Highway System, The Strategic Highway Network.  
	Fed Aid Eligibility.    
	The FHWA has the authority to require State DOTs to have access to certain safety related data.  
	The FHWA is required to provide HPMS including ARNOLD to NARA.  
	__CENSUS__  
	FGDC - NGDA Dataset owner    
	Partnership Program (and some commercial sources)   
	Locate housing Units for locals (is its primary purpose)  
	__USGS__  
	USGS Topographic Maps 130+ Year History  
	The National Map (TNM) transportation dataset - authoritative for TNM products and services, which includes US Topo and TNM Viewer.   

5.	Open Discussion  

6.	Next Steps  
(What are the needs requirements to have this network?  
	&nbsp; &nbsp;Invite FEMA and Dept of Agriculture for input  
	&nbsp; &nbsp;Business Requirements  
	&nbsp; &nbsp;Routing at the local level  
	&nbsp; &nbsp;Determine how often to update the Road Specifications)  
  ID	Action	Name	Due Date  
  -1-	  Review Charter for next meeting	Everyone   
**[Link to Charter](https://github.com/BTS-OSAV/FGDC-Geospatial-Transportation-Subcommittee/blob/master/Working%20Groups/US%20Road%20Specification/Charter.md)**   

7.	Close and Thank you   

&nbsp; &nbsp;  
&nbsp; &nbsp;  
&nbsp; &nbsp;  
[Link to Charter](https://github.com/BTS-OSAV/FGDC-Geospatial-Transportation-Subcommittee/blob/master/Working%20Groups/US%20Road%20Specification/Charter.md)  
